python comment :- A comments of a part the coding that programming does not want to execute rather the programming user it to either explain a block 
code or to avoid the execution of a specific part code  while testing.
single-Line comments
to write a comments just a '#' at start of the line.
 
 VARIBLE AND DATA TYPES
 What is varible 
 varibleis like containerthat hold very similar to how container in kitchen holds suger,salt etc creating a varible
 is like creating a palce holderin memory and it some in pyhton its as easy as writing
 a = 1
 c = true 
 d = "payal"

 what is data type?
  Data type sepcifies the type of value holds this is requid in programming various opertions with causing  an error.
  In python, we can print type of any using functions
  a = 1
  print (type(a))
  b = "1"
  print(type)

  1.numeric data  :int ,float,complex
  .int 3.-8, 0
  .float  7.384 -90.0000001
  .complex 6 +12

  2.TEXT data :str
  str."HELLO WROLD!!!" , "PYTHON PROGAMMING"

3. BOOLEAN DATA
boolean data consists of value true or false

4. Sequence data:list, tupes
list :A list is an order collection of data with elements by a comma and enclosed with square barckets.list  are mutable and can 
by modified after creation
example :- list [8,230[-4,5] "apple","banana]}
print(list)
 
 5. Mapped data:dict
 dict: A dictonary is an unorderd collectonof data contining a key:value pairs enclosed curly barckets
 Example:
 dict ={"name":"payal", "age:20" "canVote":true}
 print(dict1)


 Typecasting  in  python
 The conversion of one  data  type into thw other data type is know
 as type casting in python or type conversion in python

python  support a width  variety of functions or method line 
int(), float(), str(), oct(), set(), tuple(), set(), list(), dict()
etc for the type casting in python.

Two types of Typecafting :

Explict conversion (Explict type casting in python)
Implict conversion(Implict type casting in python)


Taking user Input in Python
In python, we can take user directly by using input() function .this input 
functions gives value as string/character hance we have pass that into a value varible
 syntax 
  
  varbile = input()
  
  but input functions return the value string. hence we have to typecasting 
  them whenever required to anther datatype
  
  varible = int(input());
  varible = int(input());
  we  can  also display at text using functions.this will make input()
  funtions take user input display a massage as will
  
  WHAT is strings?
  IN PYthon  anything that you enclose between single or double or qeotation marks is considered a srtings. A string is essentially a 
  sequence or array of textual data string are used working with unicode character
  
  Example 
  name = "payal"
  print("hello" + name)
  
  String Slicing & Opertion String Length of String 
  we can find the length of String len() function
  
  Example 
  fruit = "Mongo"
  len1 = len(fruit)
  print("Mango is a" len1, "letter word")
  
  output:
  Mango is a 5 letter word
  
  String  as an array 
   A string is essentially a sequence  of  character also called an array . thus we can access the elements of this array
   
   Example:
   pie = "Applepie"
   printpie[:5]
   print(pie[6]) #return charater at specifird index
    output :
    Apple 
    i
    
    Loop through a string 
    String  are array are iterable.thus we can loop  through Strings. 
    
     Example :
     alphabets = "ABCD"
     for i in alphabets 
     print(i)
     
     output
     A 
     B 
     C 
     D 
     E 
     
  String Method 
  Python provides a set of built-in-method that we use to after and modifiy the string 
  
  upper():
  The upper() method converts a string to upper case
  Example : 
  str1 = "AbcDfghij"
  print(str1.upper) 
  
  output :
  AbcDfghij
  
  lower() 
  The lower() method convert a stirng to lower case
  Example:
  str1 = "AbcDEfghij"
  print(str1.lower)
  
  output:
  AbcDEfghij
  
  
  if-else-statement 
  Sometimes the programmer needs  check  the evaluation of certain 
  expression(s) whether the exression(s) evaluation to TURE or FALSE expession 
  evaluation or FALSE. then the program exection had evauation or true.
  
  Based on this .the condtional statement are further classfied into following types
  .if
  .if-else
  .if-else-if
  .nested if-else-elif
  
  lopps  in Python
  sometimes a programmer wants to exectue group of statement a 
  ceratin number of times this be can done using loop.based on this
  loops are Future classfied into following  type; for looping,while Loop 
  nected loops
  
  for loop
  for loops can iterate over a sequence of iterable in Python
  iterating over a sequence is noting  but iterating over string,list,
  tupes,set, and dictionaries. 
   
   EXample : iterating over a string 
   name = "Abhishek"
   for i in name:
   print(i, end=" ,")
   A, b, h, i,s,h,e, k 
   
   PYthon while Loop 
   As the suggests,while loops execute statements while the conditions  is ture. 
   as soon  as the becomes false the interter out while Loop  
   
   Example:
   count = 5
   while(count > 0)
   print(count)
   count = count - 1 
   
   Break statement 
   The break statement enables a program to skip over a part of code.
   A break statement terminals the very loop it lies within
   
   for(in range(1, 101,1)):
   print(i,end=" ")
   if(i==50) 
   break 
   else:
   print("Mississippi")
   print("thank you")  
   
   
  FUNCTION argument and return python  statement 
   There are four types of argument that we can provide in a function 
   .Default argument 
   .Keyword argument
   .Varible argument
   .Required argument
   
  Default argument 
  We can provide  value creating a function .This way the function assume a defult
  value even if a value is not provide in the function call  for  that argument.
  
  Example :
      def name (fname, sname, fname = "payal");
  print("Hello", fnmae, sname, fname)
  name("Any" payal)
  
  Keyword argument 
  We can provide with  key=value, this way the Interpreter recgnizes by the paramter Name 
  hence, the  order in which the argument are passed does not matter . 
    
    Example :
    def name(**name):
    print("hello,", name["fname"] name["lname"])
    
    name(mname="Buchanan", lname="Barnes" fname"jamea")  
     
     Return Statment 
      The return statment is used the value of the expression back to the calling function
      
      Python lists
      .Lists are orderd collection of data items
      .They store multiple items in a single varible
      .List items are separared comments and enclosed within square barckets ()
      .Lists are changeable meaning we can alter them creation
      
      
      list =(1,2,3,4,5,6)
      list('red', 'green', 'bule')
      print(list1)
      print(list2)
      
      Python tuples
      Tuples are order collection of data items. they store multiple items in Single  
      varible .tuple items are separated  by commas enclosed with round brackets (). 
      tuples are unchanged meaning can not them after creation
      
      Example 1:
      tuple1 = (1,2,2,3,5,4,) 
      tuple2 =("Red", "Green", "Bule")
      print(tuple1)
      print(tuple2)
      
      Example 2
      details = ("Abhijeet", 18, "Abhishek", 19)
      print(details)
      
      Manipulating Tuples
      Tuples are immutable , hence it you want to add.remove or change tuple 
      items, then first you convert the tuple to a list. then perform operaton on list and convert it back to tuple
      
      Example :
      countrise = ("Spain", "Italy", "India","England", "Germany")
      temp = list(countrise)
      temp.append("Russia") #add item
      temp.pop[j]              #remove item 
      temp[2]                    #change item
      countrise = tuple(temp)
      print(countrise)
      
      Recursion in Python 
      Recursion is the process of dataing something of itself
      
      A physical world example would be to  palce two parallel mirrors facing  ecah other 
      Any  object in between them would  be reflected Recursively. 
      
      Python in Recursion Function 
      In python , we  know a function can call other function .It is even possbile for  the function 
      tp call itself .These type of construct are termed as recyrsion function
      
      Python Sets 
      Sets are unorder collection of data items .they 
      store muiltple itemsi a single varbile set items are separated by commas aand unorder within curly barckets{} . 
      Sets are unchanged items of the set once created. sets do not contain duplication item
      
      Example :
      info = {"Carla", 19, False, 5.9, 19}
      print(info)
      
      
      Joining Sets 
      Sets in python more or less work in the way as sets in mathematics.we can perform operation like  union 
      and intersection on the sets just like mathematics
      
      
      I.union() and update()
      The unoin() and updata prints all items  that are persent in the  two sets .the 
      union method() returns  aa new  set wheres update() method adds items into the existing set form 
      another set
      
      Python Dicitonaries
      Dicitonaries are orderd of coolectionof data items they stores multiple items in a single 
      varible.dicitonary items are key value pairs are separated by commas and enclosed curly barckests{}. 
      
      Example :
      info = {"name":"Karan", 'age':19, "eligable":Ture}
      print(info)
      
      Python - else in loop
      As you have learnd berfore, the else to else clause is used with along with the statement
      
      Python allows the else keyword to be used with the for and while loops too. the  else block appars after the body of the 
      loop. the statement in the  else block will be exculated after all iteration are completed. the program exits the loop after
      the else block is executed
      
      Exception Handling
      Exception handling is the Process of responding to unwanted or unexpected 
      events when a computer runs. exception handling deals with these events to avoid the program or system crashing. and without this these
      exceptions would disrupt the normal opertion of program.PendingDeprecationWarning
      
      Exception in Python 
      Python has many build-in-exceptions that are  raised when your program
      encounters are error(something in the program goes wrong)
      
      when these exception  occur. the python  interpreter stop the current Process and 
      passes it to the calling process unilt it handled. if not handled, the program will crash.
      
      Finally Clause
      The finally code block is also a part of exception handling . When we  handle exception
      using the and except block , we can include a finally block at the  end. the finally
      block is always executed, so it generally used for doing concluding taks like closing
      file resources or closing database connection or may be ending the program
      execution with a delighful message.
      
      Raising Custom error 
      In python .we can raise custom error by using the raise keyword
    
    If...Else in one Line 
    There is also a shortthand syntax for the if-else statement that can be 
    used when the condtition beign tested is simple and the code blocks to be executed
    are short. here an example:
     
     a = 2
     b = 338
     print("A") if a > b else print("B")
     
     Enumerate function in Python 
     The enumerate function is a bulit-in function in pyhton  that  allows you lo loop over a squyence(such as list,tuple or string)
     and get the index value of each element of in the value in the sequence at the same time here a basic example of how it world:
      
      
      #loop over a list and print the index and value of each element
      
      fruit = ('apple', 'banan','mango')
      for index, fruit in enumerate(fruit):
      print(index,fruit) 
      
      Virtual Environment 
      A virtual enviroment is a tool to isolate python Environment on a single meachine, allowing you to work on multiple 
      project  with different dependecies and package without conflicts.This can be espcially usefull when working 
      on project that have confilcting packages that are not compartible with each other.oct
      
      to create a virtual environment in python , you can  the venu module that comes with . here an example of 
      how to create a  virtual environment and activate it:
      
      #CREATE A  VIRTUAL ENVIRONMENT 
      python -m  venu myenv
      
      #Activate  the virtual environment (linux/mac005)
      source myenu/bin/activate
      
      #activate the virtual environment (window)
      myenv\Script\actice.bat
      
      
      HOW importing i python works 
      Importing  in python is the process of loading fron module into the current script
      this allows yoy the function and varilbe  defined in the module i your current script ,as well 
      as any addtional module that the improted module any depend  on. 
      
      import math  
      
      import math 
      
      result = math.sqrt(9)
      print(result) # output : 3.0
      
      os module in python 
      The on module in python is a built in libary that provids function with the 
      opertaing system .it allow you to perform a variety to taks such as rading and 
      writing files interacting with file system , and running system commands
       
       here are some common tasks you perform with the os module :
       
       
       Example :
       #open the file in read-only node 
       f = os.ope(n"myfile.text",os.O_RDONLY)
       
       #Read the content of the file 
       contents = os.read(f,1024)
       
       #close the file
       os.close(f)
       
       local and  gable varible
       before we dive the different between loacal and  varible .let first what a varible  in Python 
       a varible is a named loction i  memory that stores  value in python  we can  assign  value to 
       varibles using the assigenment opertion =.for 
        
        Example :
        x = 5
        y = "Hello, world!"